We didn't cover very much on March 10th.

We looked at guess_the_number.py.  You figured out how to change the
range of numbers that the computer can pick from.  You figured out
that the top end of the range needed to be changed in two places: in
the print function that tells the user the range of numbers to guess
from, and in the call to random.randint where the computer is choosing
the number for the user to try to guess.  I showed you how we can
define variables to specify the range of numbers so that if we want to
change the range in the future we only need to change the number in
one place.  You can see the updated version of guess_the_number.py at
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MarkNahabedian/teaching_python/master/guess_the_number.py.
You could also try using the command "git pull" (from the terminal
prompt, not the python prompt) to fetch the latest version from
GitHub.

We talked a little bit about how to change the program to limit the
number of times that the user can guess before the program quits.
Your homework is to figure out how to do that.  You can ask me
questions if you're confused about how something you tried didn't
work.  You'll be able to figure this out but it might take some time.
Read the program through and try to understand how it works the way it
is now.  This should give you insight into how to limit the number of
guesses the user can make.

Often when trying to solve a problem I won't be able to while I'm
thinking about it.  Often the solution, or at least something to try
next, comes to me when I least expect it, like when I'm in the shower
or when trying to fall asleep.  Ideas have never come to me while
playing games though, only when my mind is relaxed and not doing
anything.
